Download patches to st
wget https://st.suckless.org/patches/scrollback/st-scrollback-0.8.4.diff
cd st
patch -p1 < ../patches/st-scrollback-0.8.4.diff
# Resolve Any Conflicts (if necessary): If there are any conflicts, you may need to manually edit the source files.
sudo make clean install


startx is a command in Linux used to start the X Window System (also known as X11 or simply X), which is the underlying graphical display server for many Unix-like operating systems, including Linux. When you run startx, it typically launches the X server and then starts your default desktop environment or window manager.

Here's a basic overview of what happens when you use startx:

    X Server Initialization: The X server is started, which handles the display, keyboard, and mouse. It's responsible for drawing windows and managing the graphical interface.

    Launching the Window Manager or Desktop Environment: After the X server starts, startx usually starts a window manager or a full desktop environment like GNOME, KDE, or XFCE. This is defined in the user's .xinitrc file.

    Running User Programs: The .xinitrc file can also contain commands to run user programs that should start with the X session.

    Session Management: The X session continues to run until you close it, typically by logging out, which will then stop the X server and return you to the command line.

startx is commonly used when you don't have a display manager (like gdm, lightdm, or sddm) that automatically starts the graphical interface on boot. Instead, you would boot into a command-line interface, log in, and then run startx to begin your graphical session.
 

The .xinitrc file in your home directory is used by startx to know what to start when the X server is launched.
nano ~/.xinitrc
Add the following lines to start your chosen window manager or desktop environment:
exec startxfce4
Ensure that no other window managers or desktop environments are being started in this file.
4. Set Up startx to Run X Server
You may need to install the xorg package group if you haven’t already:
sudo pacman -S xorg
This installs the X server and necessary utilities


This command lists orphaned packages that were installed as dependencies but are no longer needed. You can safely remove these as well.
sudo pacman -Rns $(pacman -Qdtq)

GTK3 and GTK4 are versions of the GTK (GIMP Toolkit) library, which is used for creating graphical user interfaces (GUIs) in Linux applications.
GTK Versions Overview:

    GTK3 (GTK+ 3):
        Introduced in 2011.
        Used widely in GNOME 3 and other Linux desktop environments and applications.
        Offers improved theming capabilities, better support for modern input devices, and more.

    GTK4:
        Released in 2020.
        Represents a significant overhaul with new features and optimizations.
        Provides better performance, improved graphics rendering, and more modern UI elements.



Sound Control

    PulseAudio: Common sound server.
        Install: sudo pacman -S pulseaudio pulseaudio-alsa pavucontrol
        Volume Control: pavucontrol provides a GUI for managing sound devices and volumes.
        Command-line: amixer or pamixer can be used to control volume from the terminal, e.g., amixer set Master 50%.
    ALSA: For a more minimal setup, you can use ALSA.
        Install: sudo pacman -S alsa-utils
        Volume Control: Use alsamixer for a terminal-based interface.

3. Bluetooth

    Bluetooth Management: blueman or bluetoothctl
        Install: sudo pacman -S bluez bluez-utils blueman
        Start Service: sudo systemctl enable --now bluetooth
        GUI: blueman provides a simple GUI for managing Bluetooth devices.
        CLI: Use bluetoothctl to manage devices from the terminal.

Wi-Fi and Network

    NetworkManager: Manages network connections.
        Install: sudo pacman -S networkmanager
        Start Service: sudo systemctl enable --now NetworkManager
        GUI: Use nm-applet for a system tray icon to manage networks.
    CLI: nmcli is the command-line interface to manage network connections.



For System Tray Icons: Use nm-applet, blueman, and similar tools for quick access.
For Autostart: Create or edit a .xinitrc file for configurations to be loaded with startx.
Essential Configurations

    Autostart Applications: Use your .xinitrc file or window manager’s config to autostart applications like nm-applet, blueman, pasystray, etc.
    Display Settings: Use xrandr to set resolution, orientation, and configure multi-monitor setups.
    Power Management: Install tlp for power management on laptops, or use xset for screen blanking, e.g., xset s off.


Run chkdsk /f on Windows

If you have access to a Windows machine, follow these steps:

    Connect the USB Drive to Windows:
        Plug in the drive with /dev/sdb1 into a Windows computer.

    Open Command Prompt as Administrator:
        Press Win + X and select "Command Prompt (Admin)" or "Windows PowerShell (Admin)".

    Run chkdsk:
        In the command prompt, type:

        cmd

        chkdsk /f X:

        Replace X: with the actual drive letter assigned to the USB drive in Windows.
        This command will check the drive for errors and attempt to fix them.

    Reboot Windows Twice:
        After running chkdsk, it's recommended to reboot Windows twice before trying to access the drive again.

2. Force Mount (Use with Caution)

If you still need to access the drive in Linux and understand the risks (potential data loss), you can force mount it:

sh

sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /mnt -o force

3. Backup Important Data

If you manage to access the drive, consider backing up important data immediately to avoid potential data loss in the future.
4. Check for Hardware Issues

If the drive continues to exhibit problems, it could be a sign of hardware failure. Consider running a diagnostic tool on the drive or replacing it if necessary.

- find /home -type d -name "Coco-nut"
- ls -R | grep "Coco-nut"
- locate "Coco-nut"
- sudo chown -R omar:omar dir/
